Spotlight On…


Overview
Fortuna prides itself on being the former “gatekeeper” to top MBA programs—thanks to the fact that they mostly hire former business school admissions directors—that give applicants a unique competitive edge.  Founded in 2012 by former admissions heads of INSEAD, Wharton and a founder of the QS World MBA Tour, the boutique consulting firm asserts it is the only one in the market comprised of so many former admissions officers who collectively have worked at 12 of the 15 top b-schools.   

Hiring and Consultant Training
Although Fortuna mostly hires consultants with former admissions experience, the company requires all new staff to complete a month of onboarding.  During onboarding, employees learn how to navigate the internal Knowledge Hub where the company captures insider information on schools where the team has worked.  Employees are encouraged to keep close ties with former colleagues and alumni so they stay abreast of application and policy changes.  Workshops are held regularly so staff can provide insights on their schools, including details on how admissions decisions are made, strategic areas of growth, and admissions profiles schools are looking to develop.  

The company also sends out a weekly newsletter to consultants with school updates that include commentary and analysis by the firm’s directors.  Leadership also regularly attends conferences held by the Association of International Graduate Admissions Consultants (AIGAC). One of the co-founders of Fortuna recently co-founded the CentreCourt MBA Festival along with John Byrne, Editor-in-Chief of Poets & Quants, which has offered unique access to admissions directors and deans at many of the top schools.  

Consulting Process
Fortuna takes a multipronged approach to consulting where you’ll work with both an expert coach and one of the firm’s directors.  Fortuna currently has 21 coaches—18 of whom have direct experience working on admissions committees—and 6 directors who were former admissions directors.  

After completing an initial questionnaire on your background, achievements, and personal interests you’ll work with one of the coaches whose job is to help position you strategically.  Your coach is also central to helping tease out the narrative for your essays and thinking through what will ultimately get presented to admissions committees.  Both your coach and one of Fortuna’s directors will review your essay drafts and provide feedback.  A director will go through your full application to think through additional areas that should be addressed.  For instance, what areas would be best covered in the letters of recommendation?  If you require resume review, Fortuna has a dedicated person who specializes in this. 

Coaches typically work part-time for the firm and allege that they don’t take on more than eight clients per round.  

Consultant Selection
You will be paired with an expert coach based on your responses to the launch questionnaire you are given at the beginning of consultative process.  You can opt to change coaches if the chemistry is not there.  Similarly, you’ll be matched with a director based on the schools that you are applying and where they have expertise.  

30-Minute Free Consultation
After completing the online profile for a free consultation, I was contacted 24 hours later by one of the directors in order to setup a call. I responded with some call times but as it was over the weekend it took 48 hours to get a response to confirm the call.
The Director led the call by launching right into a profile review.  When I tried to steer the conversation towards questions I had, director didn’t really seem to listen and continued to sell the company.  I was not able to get many of my questions answered.  
Director claimed they are not in business of selling multiple school packages if it’s not in best interest of applicant. Indeed, the advice I received was that a multiple school package was not necessary for me and just to focus on one or two schools with Fortuna and then I could apply the same feedback to my other applications.  
At close of call, Director said I would be put in touch with a former admissions director to one of the schools I was applying, but I never heard back. 

Points of Pride
There is no other firm in the market with as many former admissions officers on staff
3-part team comprised of expert coaches, directors and resume reviewer who follow an 8-step timeline for comprehensive application review
Consider themselves an “elite” team of admissions consultants because they are the former “gatekeepers” to top MBA programs



Company Grading Based on Free Consultation*

Responsiveness
2/5
Quality of Free Consultation
2/5
Free Resources
1/5
Pricing
Standard

*Starring Key

Responsiveness (both in setting up call and following free consultation):
5/5= Responded within 12 hours
4/5 = Responded within 24 hours
3/5 = Responded within 36 hours
2/5 = Responded within 48 hours
1/5 = Responded within 72+ hours

Quality of Free Consultation:
5/5 = Provided solid information on profile, didn’t force agenda, transparent about firm’s process, no hard sell
4/5 = Gave some information on profile, some steering of conversation towards their agenda, somewhat vague on firm’s process, brief sales pitch
3/5 = Offered little information on profile, steered conversation, vague on firm’s process, gave pushy sales pitch
2/5 = Information on profile felt generic or unhelpful, forced agenda, no transparency on firm’s process, hard sell
1/5 = Will not offer a free consultation

Free Resources: 
5/5 = Comprehensive list of resources that are easily sortable
4/5 = Significant resources not easily sortable (e.g., blog with limited search functions)
3/5 = Helpful but limited resources
2/5 = Generic resources that are feel “sales-y”
1/5 = No resources

Pricing based on 1-school package: 
Budget = Under $4000
Standard = $4,000 - $4399
Premium = $4400-$4799
Ultra Premium = Above $4800


